hey everybody and welcome to today's
episode of learning from the pros
joining me today is Sam Dunning he is
the founder of breaking B2B and he's
going to be sharing his 10 tips around
SEO and how to rank for competitive
terms welcome Sam hey Sylvio thanks
having me on man looking forward to
getting stuck in I'm pumped I am not an
SEO expert by any means so selfishly
this this like episode and the knowledge
that you're going to share I am going to
be I always take notes but I'm going to
be taking notes extra diligently in this
episode why don't you just uh give
everyone some quick intro on yourself
and what you do yeah sure thing so I'm
I'm founder a company called breaking
B2B and basically B2B or SAS companies
come to us if they're tired or a bit
frustrated or a bit annoyed that every
time they search on Google for their
offer problems they fix or folks compare
them to Alternatives they see
competitors above them in organic search
results to stealing traffic mind share
inbound leads and demos we we fixed that
with a bit of an unusual approach to SEO
content marketing with a a revenue
driven approach as opposed to vanity
metrics and I I also host a podcast
called breaking B2B bit like this where
we interview practitioners in B2B to
share what's working today or solo
episodes around unusual B2B marketing
topics nice amazing so why don't you
kick us off with your first tip let's go
let's get stuck in so this is going to
be a bit of a road map that B2B Tech or
SAS companies can follow to take a
revenue or product driven approach with
their SEO to drive inbounds
so first things first is defining topics
defining keywords that are actually
going to drive Revenue so so many folks
when it comes to SEO it just doesn't get
given the love it deserves and there's a
number of reasons right around that and
a lot of the times it's because
marketing teams are just overworked so
and most tech and SAS marketing teams
quite small especially in the startup
world or the scaleup world you've got a
team of two or three or less and they've
usually got 100 jobs or so on their
plate to do for that
week one of the exec team the CMO or the
cro might say competitors are constantly
above us in organic search we need to
start doing some SEO and then they speak
to their marketer like let's do some SEO
and then the market is like I've got a
thousand other jobs for the week but
sure let's do some SEO so they'll do the
usual thing right they'll go to hate or
sem rush or Uber suggest they'll look
for a high volume keyword that's
relatively easy to rank relatively low
keyword difficulty in their space but
how to do X or what is y or that kind of
stuff and then they'll put that keyword
with a bit of context into a AI to like
chat gbt get an article make a couple
tweaks Chuck it on their blog hit
publish forget about it and get back to
the rest of their jobs and theoretically
they've ticked off their SEO exercise
right and then a couple months might go
past the exec will come back to them and
say hey Steve or hey Jess how did the
SEO exercise go and they'll be like
great did what you told me to I did a
bit of SEO quote unquote and they'll be
like cool how many leads did we get and
they'll say none you didn't ask us to
drive leads from SEO you just said do
SEO I did some SEO yeah and that's where
it goes wrong so folks kind of treat as
a t tick boox exercise rather than doing
it in a strategic approach so the first
step is defining money keywords what do
I mean by that I mean what is a prospect
what is a dream client going to search
on Google when they are pretty much
ready to speak to a salesperson your
offer or they might be ready to take a
sign up a demo or similar and usually
those are bucketed into a few options
right it could be someone that's
searching around your category in your
offer your Niche could be someone that's
searching for category plus the niche
you serve could be someone that's
searching for a problem that you fix
specifically or it could be someone
that's maybe comparing you to
Alternative Solutions in the market
you're probably quite quite familiar
with some of these strategies Sylvio
being a paid medor expert y so
one of the simplest ways that I found to
do this I'm a simple guy so a lot of the
tips I give a simple is to quite
literally fire up a Google sheet or
Excel sheet or similar and make a few
columns the First Column would be
listing the main offers that you
actually want to sell so your high
ticket offerings or Solutions or pieces
of
software um the second will be the
niches that you serve the industries you
serve best I.E those industries that
have the expensive problem you solve
appreciate the impact that that problem
has on their business they're motivated
to fix the problem that you solve and
most importantly they've got cash to
invest in the offer so investing in it
is not a hard decision for them they've
got the revenue flow to to make it
happen that's the second column the
third column I would do a list of all
your main competitors in your industry
so the competitors 3 four five
competitors always come up on sales
calls demos Etc you know the ones MH and
the last one is the specific problems
that you solve for what we call jobs to
be done what are the ways that folks get
the job that you solve or the problem
you solve done in house until they get
so infuriated so frustrated so annoyed
that they want to look at a new better
way of getting the job done and if you
sell CRM software usually that's cobbled
together Google Sheets or that kind of
stuff some kind of internal process
something like that what I'll do is I'll
go through an example of each one so we
IDE this so we can make what's called
longtail keywords that folks are going
to search on Google organically to be in
a position to buy our stuff so if we an
example I often use is in the calendar
software scheduling world you might have
heard of companies like Kalen Le chili
Piper Revenue hero HubSpot meetings
those are like the top four there's a
few more so if we if we pretend that
we're selling that software if we go
back to our first offer so our main
offer is calendar scheduling
software that can be bucketed into a few
different ways and phrases so longtail
keywords for that could be best calendar
scheduling software best calendar
scheduling tools best calendar
scheduling platform that kind of stuff
those would be longtale keywords but
those will be quite competitive those
will yield a decent amount of search
volume and someone that's typing in on
Google best calendar scheduling software
isn't doing it for fun they're doing it
because they probably want to evaluate
Solutions and book a demo or get a sign
up or trial of that offer now if we want
to go those those keywords we'll talk
about in a bit more detail in a bit
they're quite difficult to rank for if
we want to go a bit more Niche we'll
leverage the industries and niches that
we serve well so we could look at terms
that are a bit more longer tell so
they've got more words in the keyword
like calendar scheduling for recruitment
teams or calendar scheduling for sales
teams or best calendar scheduling for
sales or best calendar scheduling for HR
team or best software for calendars for
HR team mhm that kind of stuff so
basically offer plus Niche those are
good and then the other that's
especially good in the software route is
going for competitor based keywords so
you probably know this already if you're
tuning in when folks evaluate B2B
Services B2B softwares Etc they tend to
make a short list of three four five
vendors that they'll then discuss
internally on meetings on slack what
have you so if you can come up on Google
search when someone's on the fence I.E
they're evaluating software but but
they're not sure who they're going to go
for and if they're searching in this
case this example like cly Alternatives
or chili Piper Alternatives or chili
Piper pricing or chili Piper reviews
then that's quite High intent search
again someone's not doing that for fun
they're genuinely wanting to see what
other options are similar on the market
or maybe they're a bit annoyed with
their current provider and they want to
see what else is up there it's a great
way to position yourself as the defense
R and how you stand out yeah and then
the last one in that bucket is this is
quite a big point one
is how to Bas searches but not just
simple how to or what is like what is a
kpi or how to write a blog or something
like that that's got tons of search
volume but isn't that specific we want
to take those specific ways that someone
is doing something in house when they're
getting infuriated and annoyed it's
costing them Revenue churn it's costing
them perhaps staff members leaving it's
costing them bunch of hours wasted each
week so let's pretend you offer the
calendar scheduling like how to how to
how to link calendar calendars between
Google Docs or Gmail and Google Calendar
something like that so something that
someone's trying to Cobble together in
house but doesn't quite know that
there's a solution and that's where you
can position your off as a painkiller in
a useful
article so those are the four buckets
that that's stage one and then once you
go ahead so just to just to recap
because that's I feel like that could be
a course right there that you just
unbacked so essentially what we're
trying to do is we're trying to figure
fig out our money keywords which are
keywords that have a very high uh
propensity to to lead to a a revenue
outcome right so somebody's actually
searching for something they have intent
and then basically what you're walking
us through Sam and this kind of how I'm
interpreting is we're creating a matrix
so we're creating a matrix to create to
basically identify these money keywords
so we're listing listing out our offers
we're listing out the the niches that
are qualified to purchase those offers
the competitors and then the jobs to be
done so then from that those different
buckets now you're able to basically
create you know a whole bunch of
different longtail keywords that you can
then move forward with your strategy in
terms of the type of content you're
going to prioritize naed it is that
accurate representation nailed it and
the best folks that are most qualified
to do that exercise if you're the
founder you are you have you have sales
calls and customer success schols all
the time if you are Market part of the
marketing team then you might want to
involve your sales team or a sales
leader you might want to involve a
marketing leader you might want to
involve a revops leader so then they can
actually equip you with some of this
Intel to best fill those buckets that
we're building out on that Google sheet
Excel sheet of all those opportunities
and then as you quite rightly said
Sylvio seeing what longtail keywords
make sense from those putting them
running them through H refs or sem rush
to see if they've got a bit of search
volume but one thing I would say is a
lot of these will have super low search
volume which is good because we don't
want to attract tons of folks we want to
attract the right folks that are
specifically looking for offer so don't
necessarily be put off by low search
volume because there's going to be a lot
higher buying intent behind these
keywords I have a question on that
search volume like even our experience
at at conversion so we made the decision
earlier this year to really focus on SEO
because in our case our vision is to
become the go-to destination in the
world to learn how to run ads so our web
itself must become a resource it must
become valuable and like our longtail
vision is like we want to become like
the new PPC hero the new WordPress right
but even better because like now we have
like strategic courses that are free and
educational blogs and content and really
create like this go-to place so
literally starting from scratch like you
know bare minimum Basics Etc when I
originally was going through the the
process of figuring out keyword research
and going through that I did not start
with what you're saying around High
intent money keywords like I kind of got
caught up with more informational
keywords is which is it's weird for us
CU like we sell courses so or we sell
courses they're free we give away
courses and for us it's like somebody
researching something on Google ads
content it could really like result in a
new student sign up but it's not
necessarily like somebody searching
Google ads course which would be the
money keyword in that instance right and
somebody's actually searching for that
and we would show up and and I always
kind of I always kind of felt like I
couldn't create content on the types of
things I wanted to create content for
because it was either too difficult in
terms of like search difficulty with
like ranking domains or there was no
volume and like that I'm like okay like
what what am I going to do here which
for us we that's why like we actually
focus more on YouTube and then we see
Google like Google search is like ah
like a nice extra you know because at
least on YouTube there is volume and we
can rank you know um yeah yeah so that's
kind of been our experience so far and
like how we've thought about it so the
the low volume I think is a big one for
people it's it's a great point and that
I suppose the other thing to consider is
I'm probably looking at from although
you do have an agency Wing to your
business there is probably another way
you could hit it so because but because
your platform I suppose brings people in
from the educational sense initially
those more educational keywords that
sometimes will be higher traffic but
easier to rank for so lower keyword
difficulty do make sense mhm but then
something we'll talk about in a minute
anyway is making sure those have a
product Focus so they're not just like
walls of text article how to 10,000
words I've I've landed on the page all I
see is a wall of text I'm bouncing
instantly because it looks like terrible
yeah we need to weave in the product in
your case YouTube videos make it visual
make it interactive but we we can chat
about that so so that's a good segue to
tip number two yeah yeah yeah so we
let's pretend we've done our exhaustive
list and we've built out the longtail
keywords that we want to rank for
because we think they're going to have
some commercial intent and drive some
leads demos or signups or sales whatever
our call to action or conversion point
is the next thing we want to do another
fairly straightforward tip is literally
go to Google Search and type in those
keywords so for example if we put I
don't know chili Piper alternative as
one of them then what probably will come
up is underneath the paid ads the top
three organic will be things like the
top three sorry the top 10 chili Piper
Alternatives consider in 2024 that's
usually usually for those kind of
keywords what ranks well is a what's
called a product listicle and that is an
article typically top 10 top 20 top 15
and usually how those are formatted is
they position the offer as number one so
in this case if it was chili Piper
Alternatives it might be a company like
Revenue hero or calendly or Hub swap
meetings build out the article some
companies get these wrong as they
basically put themselves as number one
but then just Chuck out a load of
features and talk about how great they
are I would encourage you if you're
building out a product listicle like
these to think about what differentiates
you in the marketplace why prospects go
with you on sales calls why they choose
you to Alternatives maybe weave in a
comparison table with you against your
biggest competitor and share kind of
problems you fix why folks choosing all
that good stuff and then weave in a bit
of social proof or maybe a nice review
video of why someone chose you or why
someone switched from you that
competitor to you and then a nice call
to action to sign up a book a demo and
then yes you need the the nine or so
competitors that you want below and you
do need to give a fair comparison of
those that's going to be unbiased you
don't want to start slating or dissing
your competitors because that's going to
end you in a a legal battle that you
don't
want a lot of a lot of SAS a lot of tech
a lot of B2B companies do not like this
practice to be fair the sad thing is
it's one of those necessarily evils to
rank for some of these Search terms you
almost have to do it unless you've got a
website with such high domain Authority
and in the marketplace like HubSpot for
a instance where you can pretty much
publish anything in rank but yeah very
few of us are in that that situation
right so that's one example that's like
what when a a product list called
comparison page ranks but another one
that you might want to rank for let's
say it was a howto based keyword
and I should probably mention if you're
trying to rank for if we go back to our
calendar scheduling examples if you're
trying to rank keywords
like best X software like best calendar
scheduling software product listicles
again similar stuff they they tend to
rank quite well for those like top 10
candle scheduling tools for for 2024
again tends to be those sometimes it's
landing pages but not always but if we
go to our jobs to be done articles we
can talk about a framework for those as
well so usually the the point I'm
getting at is you want to review what's
ranking top three
organic assess the search intent is it
an article is it a product listal is it
a landing page is it a versus page what
kind of page is the most common in
organic search results page one so that
I know what type of page I need to build
and how can I blow that page out the
water how can I make my PO page more
useful more helpful more trustworthy
Google have a framework called eat
experience expertise Authority trust
they're looking for you to show that you
know [__] basically in that sector and
likewise that you're going to be more
helpful to the prospect but at the same
time we're not doing this for free we
want to actually drive action from it so
in the case of a how-to article that we
touched on just now then we usually the
a good framework for those is like we
know you're facing this problem this is
like the impact of the problem here's
one way you could do it if you carry on
doing in house alternatively our
solution is going to I don't like the
word 10 but 10x your productivity or fix
your churn or fix your Revenue leak or
speed up time L time delays whatever
that is and then In Articles like like I
talked about earlier so many you can
rank with articles with all of text but
what's the point a lot of companies are
scared to feature their product in these
articles but if you don't like how folks
going to know how it works there's a
there's a concept it's like you have to
connect the dots for people you know so
if you're going to create a if you're
going to create a how-to piece of
content you have to connect the dot to
your product right if you're going to
create a listicle it's a little bit more
straightforward but you have to connect
the dot to your product so it's kind of
having that frame in mind I I like the
the eat framework from Google it's good
the the one Mantra like I have for
myself and my team in terms of like the
content we create is we say to ourselves
is like how can we create content that's
so good that it gets book marked and
that's kind of like the frame we use so
it's like yeah we want to we want to
rank of course like that's like
a given but it's like taking it a step
further like how can we make it so good
that people actually want to bookmark it
and come back to it in the future and
that's kind of like the it's a good way
to think about it like to give yourself
like a 10x mindset of okay whatever
their listicle is where are the gaps and
how can I 10x it exactly exactly and it
does feel like even today folks are in
articles scared to put screenshots of
their product or like you said link it
back to product or offer or service or
weave in a YouTube video for example and
you've probably found the same if you
can weave in a relevant YouTube video
into your article your landing page
whatever it may be it seems to be an SEO
hack still right now
like if you can get a relevant YouTube
video on that topic specifically it
seems to improve your organic results it
can actually have a a little image so in
the organic search results you can get a
little image next to your ranking so it
improves your click-through rates plus
you can show up in the video section
itself so you get almost a chance at
getting four rankings four organic
rankings in the search end and result
page which is crazy so it's yeah it's a
really good really good little tip yeah
it's a big one that that's like what we
what we've been doubling down on is like
every piece of content we we make a
video for it you know and and some of
our videos that I've done are so simple
it's like me going through the blog and
covering the tips covered in the blog
and then just doing it in a video you
and and it does well you know and yeah
to your point like now you video snippet
you have it makes the original article
better and it increases the watch time
on the page which is which
is yeah yeah yeah I've had push back
from folks saying like why would I put
other media on my pages like it's going
to send them to YouTube and stuff like
that and I'm usually like brilliant
they're going to consume more of your
content and get into your ecosystem they
can trust you more adds another layer of
trust because they're seeing someone
behind the camera and then you can even
potentially retarget them on other
channels so it's only really a win-win
so I completely agree so we um so we
identified our money keywords uh and
then we went to Google and we searched
those money keywords to understand
what's already ranking what are our
competitors doing so like an
understanding of okay if we see
listicles are ranking we should do
listicles but just do it 10 times better
right and like identify the gaps yeah
exactly or if it was a landing page then
we might say look we're going to weave
it been a relevant YouTube video we're
going to do a much more comprehensive
FAQ section at the bottom and leverage
real questions that we get on sales
calls that are are tough like for
example so many agencies you go to the
FAQ section on their service pages and
it's like what is SEO what is Google ads
it's like my four-year-old could answer
that I'm I'm gonna put questions like do
you guys promise results why are you so
expensive compared to the other
opportunities why should I choose you do
you have a refund policy do I get an
account manager how does the process
work like Leverage the juicy crispy
tough to ask questions because that's
going to speed up your sales cycles and
help with SEO and that can apply to SAS
service technology answer the hard
questions that's going to drive more
inbounds and build more trust are you
you ever changing the content framework
so like maybe you notice it's aing page
or listic goal and then now you're going
to do something completely different or
are you always piggybacking off what you
see as ranking and then just doing it
better I have done it before so I have
kind of tried to give myself an uphill
battle by ranking landing pages just
because I wanted to instead of listicles
it can be done and we can talk about how
you can do that um you just usually need
usually it'll be for a more competitive
keyword that's probably got some decent
commercial intent and I I might think
our landing page might be nicer to rank
here but as a result you're probably
going to need to build some decent back
links to that page got it in order to in
order to rank well but we can talk about
that in a second all right let's uh
let's go to tip number three yeah we've
pretty much covered it to be fair tip
three is build a best inclass page that
blows the competition out of the water
and most of that is analyze the gaps in
what's ranking now work out what's
ranking now is what type of page is it
assess gaps like can I add a YouTube
video can I add a more comprehensive FAQ
section can I add a more in-depth
listicle can I add more engaging visuals
can I weave in my product can I add a
relevant cool to action based on the
funnel stage if it's a how-to article
you might link to a lead Magnet or
YouTube video Etc if it's a how-to top
funnel article we're probably not going
to force a demo down the neck whereas if
they're comparing Alternatives then by
all means let's guide them to a demo
understand where the prospect is so that
kind of stuff um number four is most
technical SEO in B2B and SAS is BS so so
many agencies spend months and months
and months building out SEO audits for
these SAS websites have got like 50
pages like what's the point what you'll
find is most B2B SAS sites in general
don't need a ton of technical to win and
this is probably something you're going
to see Silvio as you build out your
website and SEO program that unless
you've got like an e-commerce site or
Enterprise site with thousands and
thousands of pages technical SEO in most
cases is a waste of time and you're must
much better following this framework I'm
sharing but with a bias to publishing
content at speed and at scale um and
that's how you're going to beat drawing
competitors in your industry in SEO when
I say technical I'm not saying do zero
because you need to do the basics but
and that that really is the basics so
it's like like if we were trying to
rank for example if you go back to our
example like best calendar scheduling
software then are you our URL would be
for that page that we're building like
yourdomain.com
calendar hyphen scheduling hyphen
software and then in your H1 your
heading tag on the page that would weave
in that keyword in your meta title and
description it would weave in that
keyword and then you're naturally going
to weave in the keyword throughout the
content the only other thing you need to
consider is yes have a a nice ux have a
clear menu nav have a solid design and
UI on mobile and PC within your page
have some internal links to to relevant
topics throughout your website and have
some other Pages linking to you so maybe
you've got some top funnel informational
articles that then link back to that
information to that offer
page it's pretty much it doesn't need to
be too much more complex that that's a
good relief too because I mean I know my
experience like when I started getting
into SEO I started looking into
screaming frog and you know pulling
these exports through there and like
kind of trying to figure out all the the
different components of technical SEO
and it's a it's a good thing to hear
it's like hey unless you're which makes
sense in context right like unless you
have like a massive site got a lot of
things going on then the chances are for
the most part you're okay with like the
basics right meta title description and
tags and whatnot do you have like in
your experience is there like a
point where
I guess what are the signs of like okay
maybe technical Seto is hurting us here
and we actually should start to look
into it a little bit more yeah yeah I'd
say if you if you're getting to the
point where your site's been around for
some time you've got thousands of pages
you noticing that maybe traffic's
declining on pages that are historically
performing well or folks are bouncing a
lot on certain pages that maybe have
commercial value page load speeds are
poor maybe navigation poor and that kind
of stuff then then you probably want to
valuate it which for a lot of B2B SAS
kind of in the startup and mid-market
World probably not so relevant As you
move unless your Brand's been around a
long time or you're more Enterprise Le
or you are just a an unusual site that's
got tens of thousands of pages then yeah
you're going to want to evaluate this
stuff
properly whereas we found most B2B SAS
websites are the opposite they're very
light on content and yeah most of them
just need to to follow a framework
similar to mine or build their own
framework out yeah that makes perfect
sense so most technical SEO for BB SAS
is BS focus on the basics and now moving
on to number five yeah yeah yeah so
we've kind of given a little bit of a
framework for kind of seeding out what
topics what keywords we should Target
and what kind of content we should
create to match that search intent and
start
ranking now as we touched on some of
these topics some of these keywords are
going to have giant competitors that
have been in the game for ages is they
might have had tons of digital PR behind
them they might have super high domain
Authority or domain rating
and the only way to rank some of these
competitive Pages for some of these
juicy commercial keywords is to build
back links to
them and I think some folks uh everyone
has opinions I think around backlinks
and the the truth is some people buy
them some people earn them some people
trade them some people steal them so
there there's a bunch of ways that you
can earn links one of my favorite ways
at the moment is if you've got a website
that's been around for a little while
and you've got a founder or someone on
your exact team that's done some past
press or similar is to grab their copy
and paste their LinkedIn page the
LinkedIn URL the profile paste that into
HRS or semrush whatever tools you use
and then go click the back links Tab and
you can see all the companies that have
linked to their LinkedIn page or your
their LinkedIn profile sorry or likewise
you can do the same with your your main
website which is a bit more obvious and
then look at all those Niche relevant
sites sites that are related to your
industry that have previously perhaps
just maybe they asked for a snippet from
your founder or they interviewed him or
he attended a conference or whatever and
he did a talk or she did a talk reach
out to those folks and just say hey
thanks very much for featuring us a
while back I was I was wondering if you
could kind of swap this link in for for
our website page that we're focusing on
right now for one of those topic
relevant keywords that you're focusing
on and just asked to switch that link
and this tip is so fire I saw your post
about this on LinkedIn you had a post
about this recently or it was a comment
or something but I saw you talk about
this on LinkedIn somewhere and I was
just like it's genius and I put my
LinkedIn profile URL in Sam rush and I
looked at the the amount of back links
pointing at my LinkedIn and I noticed
you know over the years I've done
different podcast stuff like that and
I've kind of you forget like what you've
been a part of and I realized like oh I
did something with cognism in the past I
did something with dream data nice I did
something with hockey stack I did
something with like different brands
that have like decent domain Authority I
did something with data box you know
they have like so your domain rating
went up overnight 10 points we went from
we went from like 18 to 22 right now and
that was like recent I just made the
change and like dream data and cognism
already pointed back to me and I a
couple other ones and that was like a
quick easy tip and they were I didn't
really get any push back either like
they're all like yeah beautiful like so
I'm about to give you one that's going
to give you even more now now you've
done that the next thing you to do is
something a bit more proactive so
there's an awesome website in my opinion
called listen notes you might have seen
it before yeah have you heard of it no
I've never heard of it this is a really
cool podcasting search engine go to
listennotes decom I think it's
listennotes decom or just type listen
notes on
Google type in your Niche SAS marketing
your your paid ads B2B paid ads someone
else might be HR someone else might be
recruitment someone else might be sales
enablement whatever your Niche is who do
you sell to type it in you're going to
then filter it by top podcasts it
literally will then bring up the top
podcast in your Niche like top 10% top
5% top 2.5% you can click into each show
check their active you can see the host
then once you found out the host make a
list again simple Google sheet however
you want to do it build these out look
who the show find them on LinkedIn if
they're on the B2B if not probably on
another platform but we're B2B so we
stay LinkedIn and hit their profile send
them a painfully short personalized
message like a message that's going to
make them think this is super short this
is weird like what the heck is this
person on about so I usually say
something like let's say Let's Pretend
I've typed in my Niche which is like B2B
marketing or SAS marketing I found a top
5% show and I want a guest on it I'll
say some like hey Jess your recent
episode had on X had an unusual idea for
your show are you against a conversation
question mark something like that she's
like unusual like who is who's Sam
Dunning and what the hell does he want
if she accepts my request then I send
her a loom so it takes some time so I'll
I'll then go to her podcast website or
wherever she is I'll make a three minute
Loom and I'll give her a specific idea
for her podcast on what I could talk
about and why I think it' be useful um
for the audience and what the audience
would get out of it and then I'll I'll
basically ask if she's up for discussing
it like having me on the show has quite
a good response we not everyone will
accept you naturally but you can maybe
get I don't know 20% or so hit rate on
this and just by making a loom video you
stand out from the noise and the reason
this links back to SEO is because and
you might do it for your founder but if
you're on the marketing team then you
might do this for your founder or your
exact team and I I recommend maybe doing
five to 10 of these outreaches a week
and it's basically a three in one
because you get in front of a new
audience that is specifically interested
in your offer you Share value you
basically get free PR they'll probably
publish it to LinkedIn YouTube podcast
so you get potential inbound leads plus
you can ask them when they publish it to
their website to give you a link back to
one of your focus keywords one of your
focus pages and if you're doing it to
well establish websites in your Niche
that's like super good boost for your
domain so why I did this when I launched
my website breaking B2B because I wanted
to rank some competitive pages when we
launch literally just guested on as many
Niche relevant shows I still do it's
like really good for earning links and
getting in bounds and building trust and
building your audience and hijacking
other people's audience that's awesome I
love this yeah we're totally going to
put that into practice I will keep you
posted on the the updates on that one
very Noob question for myself and maybe
for others listening to this does it
make a difference if somebody links back
to your general like just homepage or a
specific article excuse me yeah it's
it's still okay but it's still fine to
link to the the general site the
homepage the landing page
that's still fine if there was a
specific page or keyword that you were
trying to ramp up then you might ask him
to do the anchor link to that page um as
a do follow link because that's one
you're specifically trying to boost
whereas if they say no we're just going
to give your a homepage link I mean I'll
still take it yep okay cool all right I
think I think we've already like I think
this has already been a master class and
we still have four tips left and I know
we're coming up on time so let's uh
let's go to tip number six
yeah let's fly through these so number
six we've we've kind of covered it a bit
so it's it's publishing at scale so the
way that the chances are if you're in a
known category if you're in a sector
that people know exists so calendar
scheduling software as an example people
know that that's a tool or software then
you've probably got giant competitors
the ones that are spending tons on ads
tons on content marketing tons on events
and everything else so but the good
thing to your advantage in most cases
these companies move slowly they have so
much red tape they take two weeks to
approve a topic another month to plan
out the content another month to do the
design another month to do the web def
another month to publish by the time
they've published two or three pages you
could have published 30 40 50 pages over
three months so that's where where you
want to get um a bias towards publishing
content as quick as possible so if you
do the strategy we talked about where
you define kind of those money keywords
you you start you exhaust it from the
bottom of funnel weaving in some top of
funnel articles as well and if you can
kind of make a Cadence that's realistic
for your team whether that is a couple
articles a week slightly less and if you
can stick to that then you will over
time outrank these folks because they're
going to be going slower and if you're
doing the the backlink strategy we
talked about there's a load of other
strategies to build links to but if
you're doing that strategy as well for
more competitive Pages you will start
stealing market share of a time there's
definitely there's definitely something
to that like it's like you need for sure
you need quality that's given but you
also need quantity and you need enough
of it consistently like for ourself we
noticed a massive spike in the amount of
like overall Impressions and the cool
thing too about SEO it's this
compounding effect it's like the stuff
we do today serves us three months from
now the stuff we do three months from
now six months and so on and so forth
and we're noticing like the the number
of
keywords ranking in the top 20 spots
like increasing and it's this lag from
these keywords from you know way back
when we when we started so yeah exactly
exactly like and like you said most of
the time unless you're a super
authorative company website and brand
it's going to take two months or so two
to three months for Google to CW your
pages and for your rankings to stabilize
so if you can you're always going to
have that bit of lag so if you can keep
publishing then you can constantly get
stuff out the door and get multiple
lines do you have a a recommendation on
like Cadence that you usually talk to
people
about as much as realistic right I mean
if you if you're a super small marketing
team of one then you might want to look
to for Freelancers help or contractor
help or agency help or if you can do it
yourself great and do something that's
realistic I mean it's whatever it's
whatever is realistic like if you've
neglected organic search up to this date
and you've relied on outbound sales or
paid Media or events or whatever and
there are folks actually searching for
your offer on Google then you want to do
as much as you can okay and usually that
that might be getting outside help or
doing it internally whatever makes sense
um so yeah bit publishing at scale and
then again this is going over a tip we
talked earlier number seven is designing
pages that convert so in an article case
making them visually enjoyable so folks
can actually skim the article on their
mobile or their tablet or the PC it's
got plenty of visuals of the product
maybe it's a howto article but it shows
like a nice gift of the aha moment of
your product so in the Canada scheduling
world the actual place where they click
the time and they get the meeting book
nicely or a concept called time to value
that hosi talks about a lot like how can
I see like that instant value moment
within a video within a screenshot
within a gif like that's really valuable
MH and then weaving in proof as well
like maybe customer quotes video
walkthroughs guides any kind of visual
or live demos that a lot of SAS
companies are now weaving into their
their product pages their landing pages
and solution Pages were relevant just
thinking about how can we link this back
to our product and have a revenue Focus
behind it that I just want to like
double click on ux because I think
people will hear that and they're like
oh yeah ux ux whatever but like design
is a competitive Advantage if you use it
like good uxx like a beautifully
aesthetic website blog it's a massive
difference like we invested pretty
significantly on like the ux ofr site
and the the Aesthetics of our blog I
think it looks pretty awesome I've
gotten comments from other people too
saying it's awesome so I don't think I'm
biased it's nice your site is very nice
I agree but thank you and like two
things we did on the ux side that like
had an actual impact on conversion was
we made a sticky CTA on the right side
of the screen so it follows you as you
scroll down and it's always like CTA in
our case linking to our courses and then
the second thing we did as well is with
the table of content so it makes it
really easy to jump around and then
there's share buttons underneath the
table of contents as well so like if you
want to share it you can and it's super
easy and then one thing that we just
rolled out now but we've already it's
like fresh like 48 hours at the time of
this recording is we launched an exit
intent popup on the blog as well to
drive to the sign up page for people
that actually like went I think it's
like 75 way through and like they
actually engage with the content and
those three things seem to be working
really well and then the other thing
we're looking about integrating is like
content upgrades in the article so like
additional ctas in the article related
to the content to now plug in our case
like a template or a resource connected
to the thing that they're learning about
to get them to drive to action very good
very good that is literally the the
framework that I share because so many
B2B so many Tech so many companies
invest a lot of time cash or resource
into their Pages landing pages articles
but then they look [__] like they look
so basic man excuse my French but if
you're going to ex if you're going to
invest that resource like you said make
it look good make it enjoyable to read
to skim Etc and your point was was
brilliant like there's there's a company
called Revenue here that I did some
Consulting for a while back and that
just like your article like they've got
exactly the same like a fixed CTA
depending on the funnel stage of the
article like if it's a how-to it'll be
check out our newsletter where if it's a
comparison or a best of list then it'll
be kind of are you ready to speak to
sales like book a demo and a fixed table
of contents but I think your idea on the
the relevant lead magnet on the topic is
is very smart or a checklist or
something like that like there's a lot
of ways that blogs can be contributing
to drive signups or leads of Revenue
100% yeah and and like just studying
other adjacent blogs outside of your
industry is like something that we found
really helpful because to your point in
the SAS space in the B2B space there's a
few people doing it right but if you
just kind of like step outside of your
industry and you start to look at other
blogs other Publications like for us we
did a lot of studying around like these
top PPC Giants right like we want to
become the next word uh what do you call
it word stream or PPC hero uh or you
know all these so we're like what are
they doing right and what are they doing
wrong like a lot of them they in our
case like they were just there first you
know like as search emerged so on the ux
side they're not doing anything like
it's like still the same as it's been
since like
2012 um so it's like a big opportunity
versus like in in other areas like we
found some really really cool blogs in
the engineering space and like they have
really cool ux and Aesthetics so we kind
of got like inspiration from that and
you know this is kind of where you can
kind draw that together that would be a
fun case study like just the best
articles outside of B2B Tech and SAS
because so many of us in this space Stu
stuck in a bub yeah yeah it would be
good it' be fun to review cool um so
we've yeah we've talked about designing
the pages to work well for your
prospects which is number seven and then
number eight again this is just
highlighting the importance of working
with your sales team if you have one or
customer success or support team and
customer research if you have some to
leverage that in those pages so like you
can rank Pages you can rank Pages using
AI content but if someone lands on a
page and sees we're going to turbocharge
your revenue and make you a money
driving machine that's going to 10x your
productivity with with all our insights
it's like this this was written by a
robot and instant bounce so if you can
actually resonate with Target prospects
whe with their pain points with their
goals their motivations their jobs to be
done Etc and pull those insights from
your sales teams from cool recordings
from just getting with yourself team or
support team for a beer or for a coffee
or for a meal and kind of go through
some of the topics you're attacking and
asking for their insights or what comes
up time and again or what are those
common objections and then weave those
into your content that you're building
out for that specific page and that's
going to be very very useful not just
for SEO but for sales enablement for
speeding up deal cycles and for building
trust just good practice um number nine
just keep improving so if you if you
have this bias towards publishing rather
than publishing when it's ready rather
than when it's perfect and then you can
give it two to three months for the
rankings to see how they settle and then
it might be okay great we got to I don't
know organic position five or position
seven less less review it again let's
review what's number one okay we can add
a few more FAQs we can add a YouTube
video on the topic we can add some more
nice images of our product in the a have
moment we can maybe add some customer
quotes maybe do a bit more of a
breakdown maybe earn a couple links um
and just just ramp that page up a bit
and get that ranking
up and then apart from that it's build
it number 10 is just scale this thing up
really so understand that SEO is
something that's that can always be
improved even for for Giants in the in
your industry
and the SEO is one piece of the puzzle
in B2B it's rare that if someone's
looking for a high ticket offer or
solution or service that they'll see
your website for the first time and
click buy now for 100k piece of software
they're probably going to do a fair bit
of research they're probably going to
look you up on Google compare you to
Alternatives check out your LinkedIn
check out your podcast check out your
YouTube channel speak to referrals
compare a bunch of other options forget
about it for six months remember you
come back so SEO is one piece of the B2B
ecosystem
and there's there's lots more to it that
can complement a good SEO strategy yeah
this is such man I I hope you guys got a
lot of value of this episode I know you
did if you've been paying attention one
quick quick question around uh content
pieces uh is tools like uh tools is like
a big opportunity especially for like
SAS companies uh in terms of like
creating unique Tools around problems
they solve I'm curious if where you've
seen tools kind of fit in terms of
ranking and and like your framework
it can be really good actually
especially for like plg companies so you
can like canva did with all the document
creation tools and PDF editor tools and
that kind of stuff if you can think of a
if you can think of an offer that almost
it almost links to the jobs to be done
like what someone's doing internally and
they're getting frustrated with and
struggling with and then if you can
think of a tool or free version or
something like that that can hit that
intent that has a bit of traffic or
search volume around it like that's a
really nice way to give some a free
toour on that page but then kind of
position your offer like I don't know
take a sign up if you want to taste the
full solution or take a 30-day trial if
it's relevant like I agree with you if
you've got the resource to build those
tools they can be very very powerful for
certain certain products certain plg but
motion products they can be very very
good for everyone listening we figured
that out by accident like not not by you
know being smart or anything so we
created a Google ads budget calculator
and this is like months ago when we our
domain Authority was like five and we
created a Google ads budget calculator
and we we just published it you know and
I think I did like one LinkedIn post
about it I didn't think anything of it
that was it you know I was like oh we
need this calculator because like I've
been like sharing my spreadsheet for so
long I was like let's just build it into
a tool we built it launched it didn't
think about it fast forward a few months
that thing is ranking by itself on
position five on Google search
nice like no backlinks no nothing just
it just got picked up you know and now
we did the same thing we built a UTM
tagger tool to basically replace the
Google ad campaign URL Builder and we
made it better where yes you could do a
single URL but you can also do them in
bulk and you can share your results so
we kind of like took what people love
and just made it a little bit better and
we just launched that tool and that tool
is like it's still really soon but it's
starting to like get rankings and Rise
through through through the uh the
search results so you can invest in in
tools like but what we I think where we
failed like now looking backwards is we
didn't start with the jobs to be done so
we can connect the dots you know for us
it was more of like oh we should just
have this tool and then in our case like
we we kind of made it work afterwards to
connect the dots but if we were more
intentional about it in the beginning I
think it would have been better yeah for
anyone that's not familiar with jobs to
be done just YouTube Bob moer I think
his surname is is Bob then m o s he does
some great interviews around the jobs to
be done Frameworks I'm pretty sure he
created it with some other guy and it'll
basically explain like exactly how it
works and the mindset and the psychology
behind it because it's very useful
marketing framework Shameless plug but
in our B2B advertising foundations
course taught by Britney blankin she
covers this in module two and how to use
a job to beone framework and develop
your buyer
personas nice very good co man I know I
know we're at time here I just want to
do a quick recap for everyone so in
terms of ranking for your most difficult
terms and how to compete in the B2B
space so number one is Define your money
keywords these are keywords that are
high intent in nature that can actually
lead to some sort of meaningful
conversion event tip number two was to
go to Google and actually search your
keywords and understand what is already
ranking and and look at your competitors
and kind of get a lay of the land in
terms of the uh the search engine
results page and uh kind of assess that
search intent and what's showing up is
it holisticals the cont content format
is it a a listicle is it a landing page
is it some sort of comparison Etc tip
number three was to build a
best-in-class page that beats what you
just figured out so like Sam mentioned
you can go the route if you want to go a
different content framework but it's
kind of like going up a little bit of a
a steeper Hill so if you want to take
the the easiest path to Victory just
kind of take what's already working and
just make it better so figure out how
can that be done and don't sleep on ux
tip number four is most technical SEO is
kind of irrelevant for B2B SAS unless
you you're a much more established
company your Enterprise you're you know
you have thousands of pages on your site
tip number five is to build quality
backlinks for z uh so take your url
whether it's your website your Founders
LinkedIn profile URL whoever you think
is relevant put it into a tool like
semrush HRS Etc and then look at the
back links that are already pointing at
it and then reach out to those people
and ask them could you please link to my
site as well and then bonus tip on this
tip was to basically put together your
own PR list right like go and use that
that tool listn notes.com find your
Niche find the top podcasters and then
Outreach to them and try to get yourself
on their podcast by using a personalized
approach with loom tip number six was to
publish at scale Define your own content
Cadence depending on your internal
strengths tip number seven is to design
pages that convert really think about
those different conversion principles
sticky CTA content upgrades and popups
more useful ux social proof embedded
product platform walkthroughs like using
tools like novatic things like this that
can actually drive uh to conversion and
then tip number eight is leverage sales
and customer success when you're doing
your research tip number nine is to keep
at it keep improving keep ranking and
finally tip number 10 is to scale as you
grow and remember it is one piece of the
B2B marketing ecosystem Sam thank you so
much this was incredible if people want
to connect with you find you where can
they yeah really appreciate it so
breaking bb.com you can grab the I've
actually got a Playbook that shares this
full process in detail just go breaking
bb.com hit the newsletter if you prefer
to watch or listen search breaking B2B
wherever you get your podcast I ramble
on about SEO and interview marketing
practitioners on what's working today in
B2B and SAS or if linkedin's your thing
I'm hanging out on LinkedIn happy to
chat and discuss further awesome thank
you so much for being here everybody
thanks for tuning in and helping us out
here Sam and for everyone listening be
sure to subscribe to the channel if
you're not already and we'll see you in
the next one